README.md, before:

# NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake

NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake is built on top of [NEAR Lake Framework](https://github.com/near/near-lake-framework-rs) to watch the network and store all the events in the PostgreSQL database.

## Shared Public Access

NEAR runs the indexer and maintains it for [NEAR Explorer](https://github.com/near/near-explorer), [NEAR Wallet](https://github.com/near/near-wallet), and some other internal services. It proved to be a great source of data for various analysis and services, so we decided to give a shared read-only public access to the data:

* testnet credentials: `postgres://public_readonly:nearprotocol@testnet.db.explorer.indexer.near.dev/testnet_explorer`
* mainnet credentials: `postgres://public_readonly:nearprotocol@mainnet.db.explorer.indexer.near.dev/mainnet_explorer`

WARNING: We may evolve the data schemas, so make sure you follow the release notes of this repository.

NOTE: Please, keep in mind that the access to the database is shared across everyone in the world, so it is better to make sure you limit the amount of queris and individual queries are efficient.

## Self-hosting

The final setup consists of the following components:
* PostgreSQL database (you can run it locally or in the cloud), which can hold the whole history of the blockchain (as of August 2022, mainnet takes 3TB of data in PostgreSQL storage, and testnet takes 1TB)
* NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake binary that operates as a NEAR Lake Framework based indexer, it requires [AWS S3 credentials](https://near-indexers.io/tutorials/lake/credentials)

### Prepare Development Environment

Before you proceed, make sure you have the following software installed:
* [Rust compiler](https://rustup.rs/) of the version that is mentioned in `rust-toolchain` file in the root of [nearcore](https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore) project.
* `libpq-dev` dependency

    On Debian/Ubuntu:
    
    ```bash
    $ sudo apt install libpq-dev
    ```


### Prepare Database

Setup PostgreSQL database, create a database with the regular tools, and note the connection string (database host, credentials, and the database name).

Clone this repository and open the project folder

```bash
$ git clone https://gitbub.com/khorolets/near-indexer-for-explorer.git
$ cd near-indexer-for-explorer
```

You need to provide credentials via `.env` file for:
- database

  (replace `user`, `password`, `host` and `db_name` with yours)
  ```bash
  $ echo "DATABASE_URL=postgres://user:password@host/db_name" > .env
  ```
- AWS S3 (permission to read from buckets):
  ```bash
  $ echo "LAKE_AWS_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" >> .env
  $ echo "LAKE_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
  ```

Then you need to apply migrations to create necessary database structure. For this you'll need `diesel-cli`, you can install it like so:


```bash
$ cargo install diesel_cli --no-default-features --features "postgres"
```

And apply migrations

```bash
$ diesel migration run
```

### Compile NEAR Indexer for Explorer

```bash
$ cargo build --release
```

### Run NEAR Indexer for Explorer

Command to run NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake have to include the chain-id and start options:

You can choose NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake start options:
 - `from-latest` - start indexing blocks from the latest finalized block
 - `from-interruption` - start indexing blocks from the block NEAR Indexer was interrupted last time but earlier for `<number_of_blocks>` if provided
 - `from-block --height <block_height>` - start indexing blocks from the specific block height

Unlike the original [NEAR Indexer for Explorer](https://github.com/near/near-indexer-for-explorer) you **can't** tell Indexer to store data from genesis (Accounts and Access Keys) by adding key `--store-genesis` to the `run` command. So please, ensure you took care about the genesis data in your database in order this indexer to work properly.

```
TODO: Implement a tool to fill the database with the genesis data
```

NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake works in strict mode by default, but you can disable it. The strict mode means that every piece of data
will be retried to store to database in case of error. Errors may occur when the parent piece of data is still processed but the child piece is already trying to be stored. So Indexer keeps retrying to store the data until success. However, if you're running Indexer not from the genesis it is possible that you really miss some of parent data and it'll be impossible to store a child one, so you can disable strict mode to ensure you've passed the strong relation data area and you're running Indexer where it is impossible to loose any piece of data.

To disable strict mode you need to provide:

```
--non-strict-mode
```

Unlike the original [NEAR Indexer for Explorer](https://github.com/near/near-indexer-for-explorer) the Lake-based version is not syncing with the network in a traditional way, so we've dropped the `--stream-while-syncing` feature.

By default NEAR Indexer for Explorer processes only a single block at a time. You can adjust this with the `--concurrency` argument (when the blocks are mostly empty, it is fine to go with as many as 100 blocks of concurrency).

So final command to run NEAR Indexer for Explorer can look like:

```bash
$ ./target/release/indexer-explorer-lake \
  --non-strict-mode \
  --concurrency 1 \
  from-latest
```

After the network is synced, you should see logs of every block height currently received by NEAR Indexer for Explorer.

### Troubleshoot NEAR Indexer for Explorer

Refer to a separate [TROBLESHOOTING.md](./TROBLESHOOTING.md) document.

## Database structure

![database structure](docs/near-indexer-for-explorer-db.png)


## Creating read-only PostgreSQL user

We highly recommend using a separate read-only user to access the data to avoid unexcepted corruption of the indexed data.

We use `public` schema for all tables. By default, new users have the possibility to create new tables/views/etc there. If you want to restrict that, you have to revoke these rights:

```sql
REVOKE CREATE ON SCHEMA PUBLIC FROM PUBLIC;
REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA PUBLIC FROM PUBLIC;
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA PUBLIC GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO PUBLIC;
```

After that, you could create read-only user in PostgreSQL:

```sql
CREATE ROLE readonly;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO readonly;
-- Put here your limit or just ignore this command
ALTER ROLE readonly SET statement_timeout = '30s';

CREATE USER explorer with password 'password';
GRANT readonly TO explorer;
```

```bash
$ PGPASSWORD="password" psql -h 127.0.0.1 -U explorer databasename
```

Commit message:

feat: remove unnecessary clap options and add information about how to configure AWS credentials

README.md, after:

# NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake

NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake is built on top of [NEAR Lake Framework](https://github.com/near/near-lake-framework-rs) to watch the network and store all the events in the PostgreSQL database.

## Shared Public Access

NEAR runs the indexer and maintains it for [NEAR Explorer](https://github.com/near/near-explorer), [NEAR Wallet](https://github.com/near/near-wallet), and some other internal services. It proved to be a great source of data for various analysis and services, so we decided to give a shared read-only public access to the data:

* testnet credentials: `postgres://public_readonly:nearprotocol@testnet.db.explorer.indexer.near.dev/testnet_explorer`
* mainnet credentials: `postgres://public_readonly:nearprotocol@mainnet.db.explorer.indexer.near.dev/mainnet_explorer`

WARNING: We may evolve the data schemas, so make sure you follow the release notes of this repository.

NOTE: Please, keep in mind that the access to the database is shared across everyone in the world, so it is better to make sure you limit the amount of queris and individual queries are efficient.

## Self-hosting

The final setup consists of the following components:
* PostgreSQL database (you can run it locally or in the cloud), which can hold the whole history of the blockchain (as of August 2022, mainnet takes 3TB of data in PostgreSQL storage, and testnet takes 1TB)
* NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake binary that operates as a NEAR Lake Framework based indexer, it requires [AWS S3 credentials](https://near-indexers.io/tutorials/lake/credentials)

### Prepare Development Environment

Before you proceed, make sure you have the following software installed:
* [Rust compiler](https://rustup.rs/) of the version that is mentioned in `rust-toolchain` file in the root of [nearcore](https://github.com/nearprotocol/nearcore) project.
* `libpq-dev` dependency

    On Debian/Ubuntu:
    
    ```bash
    $ sudo apt install libpq-dev
    ```


### Prepare Database

Setup PostgreSQL database, create a database with the regular tools, and note the connection string (database host, credentials, and the database name).

Clone this repository and open the project folder

```bash
$ git clone https://gitbub.com/khorolets/near-indexer-for-explorer.git
$ cd near-indexer-for-explorer
```

You need to provide credentials via `.env` file for:
- database

  (replace `user`, `password`, `host` and `db_name` with yours)
  ```bash
  $ echo "DATABASE_URL=postgres://user:password@host/db_name" > .env
  ```
- AWS S3 (permission to read from buckets):

    Ensure you have [AWS Credentials configured](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html) to access AWS S3:

  > For example, the files generated by the AWS CLI for a default profile configured with aws configure looks similar to the following.
  >
  > ~/.aws/credentials
  > ```
  > [default]
  > aws_access_key_id=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
  > aws_secret_access_key=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
  > ```
  > or environment variables:
  > 
  > ```bash
  > $ echo "AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<your_aws_access_key_id>" > .env
  > ```
  > ```bash
  > $ echo "AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<your_aws_secret_access_key_id>" > .env
  > ```

Then you need to apply migrations to create necessary database structure. For this you'll need `diesel-cli`, you can install it like so:


```bash
$ cargo install diesel_cli --no-default-features --features "postgres"
```

And apply migrations

```bash
$ diesel migration run
```

### Compile NEAR Indexer for Explorer

```bash
$ cargo build --release
```

### Run NEAR Indexer for Explorer

Command to run NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake have to include the chain-id and start options:

You can choose NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake start options:
 - `from-latest` - start indexing blocks from the latest finalized block
 - `from-interruption` - start indexing blocks from the block NEAR Indexer was interrupted last time but earlier for `<number_of_blocks>` if provided
 - `from-block --height <block_height>` - start indexing blocks from the specific block height

Unlike the original [NEAR Indexer for Explorer](https://github.com/near/near-indexer-for-explorer) you **can't** tell Indexer to store data from genesis (Accounts and Access Keys) by adding key `--store-genesis` to the `run` command. So please, ensure you took care about the genesis data in your database in order this indexer to work properly.

```
TODO: Implement a tool to fill the database with the genesis data
```

NEAR Indexer for Explorer Lake works in strict mode by default, but you can disable it. The strict mode means that every piece of data
will be retried to store to database in case of error. Errors may occur when the parent piece of data is still processed but the child piece is already trying to be stored. So Indexer keeps retrying to store the data until success. However, if you're running Indexer not from the genesis it is possible that you really miss some of parent data and it'll be impossible to store a child one, so you can disable strict mode to ensure you've passed the strong relation data area and you're running Indexer where it is impossible to loose any piece of data.

To disable strict mode you need to provide:

```
--non-strict-mode
```

Unlike the original [NEAR Indexer for Explorer](https://github.com/near/near-indexer-for-explorer) the Lake-based version is not syncing with the network in a traditional way, so we've dropped the `--stream-while-syncing` feature.

By default NEAR Indexer for Explorer processes only a single block at a time. You can adjust this with the `--concurrency` argument (when the blocks are mostly empty, it is fine to go with as many as 100 blocks of concurrency).

So final command to run NEAR Indexer for Explorer can look like:

```bash
$ ./target/release/indexer-explorer-lake \
  --non-strict-mode \
  --concurrency 1 \
  from-latest
```

After the network is synced, you should see logs of every block height currently received by NEAR Indexer for Explorer.

### Troubleshoot NEAR Indexer for Explorer

Refer to a separate [TROBLESHOOTING.md](./TROBLESHOOTING.md) document.

## Database structure

![database structure](docs/near-indexer-for-explorer-db.png)


## Creating read-only PostgreSQL user

We highly recommend using a separate read-only user to access the data to avoid unexcepted corruption of the indexed data.

We use `public` schema for all tables. By default, new users have the possibility to create new tables/views/etc there. If you want to restrict that, you have to revoke these rights:

```sql
REVOKE CREATE ON SCHEMA PUBLIC FROM PUBLIC;
REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA PUBLIC FROM PUBLIC;
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA PUBLIC GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO PUBLIC;
```

After that, you could create read-only user in PostgreSQL:

```sql
CREATE ROLE readonly;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO readonly;
-- Put here your limit or just ignore this command
ALTER ROLE readonly SET statement_timeout = '30s';

CREATE USER explorer with password 'password';
GRANT readonly TO explorer;
```

```bash
$ PGPASSWORD="password" psql -h 127.0.0.1 -U explorer databasename
```
